# What is a Product?

## Learning Objectives

- Describe what a product is
- Identify the different types of product delivery models

## What is a Product?

A product is an item available for consumer usage; it is anything that can be offered to a market to satisfy the desire or need of a customer.

## Types of Product:

### 1. Physical Products

- A **physical product** is something that you can hold in your hand and see, like a book or a pair of shoes. They are tangible products with a visible presence in the real world. Examples include books.

- There are two types of physical products: **Durable Physical Products** and **Non-Durable Physical Products**.

  - **Durable Physical Products** include items like cars, houses, appliances, etc., which have a long lifespan and can be used for many years. These goods last on average of 3 years or more and are also called hard goods.

  - **Non-Durable Physical Products** include items like paper, Pepsi can, fruits, groceries, medicine, plastic cups, and clothing that can be used once or immediately consumed by the consumer. These goods last less than 3 years, a day, or a week and are also called soft goods.

### 2. Virtual Products

- A **virtual product** is something that you can buy but cannot hold in your hand, such as software applications.

- There are two types of virtual products: **Service-Based Virtual Products** and **Experiences-Based Virtual Products**.

  - **Service-Based Virtual Products** are intangible services delivered through digital means. Examples include cloud computing services, SaaS (Software as a Service) platforms, digital consultancy, online support services, etc.

  - **Experiences-Based Virtual Products** provide users with an experience, such as a movie, game, concert ticket, or restaurant bookings. Examples include VR (Virtual Reality) gaming, AR (Augmented Reality) apps, virtual tours, interactive simulations.

## Software Products

- You can purchase and use software as a one-time act or subscribe to software as a service.

- This is where the term **software-as-a-service (SaaS)** originates.

- This approach uses a web-based delivery model, and customers pay a monthly, quarterly, or annual subscription fee to access the software. For example, MS Office installed on your laptop and MS Office 365 accessed through the web.
