# Communication Skills

## Learning Objectives

  - Recognize the essential skills for the product role.

  - Understand why the ability to communicate effectively is a key skill for a PM.


## Effective Communication Skills

  - Keeping your cross-functional team in sync requiress exceptional communication skills. You need to translate critical information to executives, developers, marketers, and salespeople.

  - The better you understand the details each team needs to do their jobs well, the better you can communicate with them.


## Key Stakeholders

  - **Executives**: Strategic plans and progress against goals.

  - **Developers**: Detailed user stories and feature requirements.

  - **Marketers**: Go-to-market timelines and how to communicate the value of new functionality.

  - **Salespeople**: What is new and why it benefits customers.


## Cross-team communication

  - Product managers have significant responsibilities without the benefit of explicit authority.

  - Their work guides and impacts many others, but you do not manage those teams.

  - So it is critical that PMs can build the trust and influence you need with colleagues from different functional groups to drive your product forward.


## How to communicate and facilitate communication

  - **Plan**: Building a well-defined product roadmap establishes a clear direction and ensures that people understand the product strategy and can see how their efforts will support it.

  - **Listen**: Solicit feedback - especially from those who are customer-facing. These folks can help you better understand and solve real problems yours users face.

  - **Understand**: Take the time to understand how other departments operate. Learn to speak their language and understand their goals. This will help you work with them more efficiently.

  - **Communicate**: Interruptions and unforseen changes happen. The larger team will need to know if major dates or scope of work changes so they can adjust their timelines accordingly. Do not leave anyone in the dark.