## What is a Roadmap?

## Learning Objectives

  - Describe what a 'Product Roadmap' is
  - Learn how to build a 'Roadmap' from strategy


## What is a Roadmap?

 - Once the vision for the product is defined and the high-level strategic planning is done - now we need a roadmap for what we will deliver and when. This might be the launch of a new product to customers, enhancements to an existing one, or even an internal product used by your organization.


## What is Product Roadmap?

  - A product roadmap is a tool that lays out the big efforts required to meet your overall business objectives and the timeline for implementing features and requirements that align with your strategy.


## Roadmaps are not static - they evolve

  - Roadmaps evolve. You should continously adjust yours throughout the lifecycle of the product, based on shifting customer needs, and market demand.

  - Forward-thinking product managers see a roadmap as more of a dynamic compass than a rigid guide.


## Why is it important?

  - Roadmapping is an essential part of your strategic planning process.

  - The exercise can be a forcing factor for conversations about where you will invest and why.

  - Visibility into what is coming next helps the entire organization prioritize and plan for the new experience you will deliver.


## Sharing the Roadmap with Stakeholders

  - Communication and bringing shared understanding of goals are essential to building great products.

  - A well communicated product roadmap presents a cohesive story about the direction of the product to all stakeholders concerned.