# Strategic Thinking

## Learning Objectives

 - Recognize the essential skills for the product role

 - Undeerstand why the abolity to strategize is a key skill for a PM.

## Skills of a Product Manager

- As Product Managers manage products that make a real difference in people's lives, there are essential skills that every product manager needs to have in order to excel.

- And strategic thinking ability is a one of the key skills to have.


## Strategic Thinking

  - Strategic thinking is critical when defining product vision and the direction you will take to achieve it.

  - The success of your product ultimately relies on your ability to think beyond the day-to-day tactical work and deliver a 'Complete Product Experience'.

  - It informs your planning and represents the "why' and the "what' of the work you want to accomplish.


## Purpose

 - Strategic thinking is about defining where you want to go and what you want to achieve.

 - It is useful for when you need to make an informed decision, solve a problem, or improve a process.

 - Strategic thinking helps you consider the long-term value and consequences of taking a particular approach.


## Process

  - Strategic thinking requires envisioning what you want to accomplish and formulating solutions to problems.

  - You can do this by conducting research, performing root cause analysis, and devising alternative approaches.

  - Record your ideas and observations to help bolster your strategic thinking skills. Take notice of patterns and trends and speak to colleagues to consider perspectives that may be different than your own.


## What does it require?

  - Curiosity: The ability to ask "why" and "how" questions.

  - Creativity: Generating new ideas and solutions.

  - Boldness: Taking calculated risks in order to identify potential problems and opportunities.

  - Open-ended thinking: Keeping all options on the table until you find the best solution.

  - Pattern recognition: Identifying common issues that recur across projects.

  - Problem-solving  skills: Developing methods to address complex challenges.


## Note

   - It is a skill you can apply to your everyday work to help you make decisions more quickly and prioritize areas that are worth investing in.

   - Ideally, thinking strategically is ongoing. It is something that you do all the time.