# Empathy

## Learning Objectives

 - Recognize the essential skills for the product role.

 - Understand why the ability to empathize is a key skill for a PM

 ## User Empathy as a Skill

  - Delivering a lovable product requuires genuine empathy for those who use it. And learning how to relate to customer's pain is a skill. 

  - You need to know how to effectively engage with your customers and then translate their emotions into real solutions.

## Why Empathize?

  - As product managers, the problems we are trying to solve are rarely our own.

  - Often we are building products to make the lives easy for users, whose life, pains, and experiences are completely different from ours.

  - Empathy, therefore, helps us get into their skin. It helps us define the problem we are trying to solve.


## How to Empathize?

  - Persona Creation: Create a character in your mind that represents the user you're working with.

  - User Interviews: Talk to real users and ask lots of questions.

  - Empathy Mapping : A collaborative technique where everyone on the team can contribute ideas about what they think the user might.

  - User Journey Mapping: Map out how a user interacts with your product from start to finish. This can be done

  - Surveys & A/B Testing : Gather data from many users at once.


## Note:

  - Empathy enables you to build products for humans.

  - Solving a real problem for a real person is what most product managers genuinely want. The path to greater meaning in your work and your impact through your product is empathy.