# Responsibilities of a Product Manager

## Learning Objectives
 - Explain the responsibilities of a Product Manager

## What a PM does:
 - The scope of work of a PM is quite broad; however, the day-to-day responsibilities can typically be broken down into the following areas. Let us study them one by one.

## Setting Strategy
 - A key responsibility of a PM is setting the product's vision and strategic direction.

 - Strategic planning involves laying out major areas of investment so we can prioritize what matters most to achieve our product goals.

## What constitutes strategy?
 - **Product Vision**: The desired end result for the product, often expressed as "the ultimate goal".

 - **Business Models**:  How the product will contribute to the business in terms of revenue streams, cost reduction, etc.

 - **Positioning**:  Identifying how your product will fit into the marketplace and differentiate itself from competitors.

 - **Pricing**:  Determining how much customers will pay to use your product.

 - **Personas and audience segements**:  Identifying who your users are (e.g., small business owners or large enterprises).

 - **Product goals and initiatives**:  These are specific tasks that need to be completed in order to achieve the overall product vision.


 ## Research 
  - Staying updated on customer research and what is hapenning in the market. This includes:
    - **Market analysis**:  understanding who your target audience is and their needs.

    - **Competitor analysis**:  understanding what other companies are offering and how they compare to yours.

    - **Customer analysis**:  understanding your own users and their pain points.


## Evaluating Ideas
 - Product Managers are responsible for collecting, organizing, and evaluating new requests and feedbacks that will deliver value to customers.
 - You own the organization's idea management process and determine which ideas should be promoted to your backlog in order to propel the product strategy forward.


## Customer Outreach
 - Learn the customers' needs and challenges by meeting with them directly.
 - Participating in customer calls, focus groups, polls or surveys, virtual sessions or empathy sessions, and usability testing.
 

## Product Planning & Development
 - Product Roadmap
 - Feature backlog management.
 - Feature definition.
 - Product Design - mock-ups, prototypes, and wireframe.
 - Release planning.


## Product Promotion
 - Go-to-market planning.
 - Sales and marketing content.
 - Support for customer-facing teams.


## Product Performance 
 - Track, Analyse and Improve:
     - Customer Adoption
     - Product Analytics