# A Day in the Life of a Product Manager

## Learning Objectives
 - Explain the work that a Product Manager does on a day-to-day basis.

## Life of Product Manager
 - From Strategic planning to go-to-market launches, you manage everything that must be done to build,ship, and maintain the product.

 - Each day is dynamic in its own way, which is part of what makes the work so exciting.


## Connecting & Communicating
 - Meeting the various stakeholders- across users, design, development, business, sales and marketing.
 - Communicating the product strategy and roadmap across the organization and bringing alignment towards the product goals.


## Learning and Analyzing
 - Identifying metrics and Key Performance Indicators(KPI) to track.
 - Studying your market by reading analyst reports, influential blogs, your competitors' product literature, news about your market, etc.
 - Reviewing the adoption data of any new features, functionality, or changes to your product's user experience.


## Deciding and Documenting 
 - Updating Product Requirement Documents and Roadmaps.
 - Writing problem statements and hypotheses, and then ensuring they are available to the relevant stakeholders.


## Daily and weekly product managers meetings
 - Product team: Plan releases, evaluate ideas, define features, and review metrics.
 - Engineering team: Review and plan development.
 - Executive team: Share roadmaps and get buy-in.
 - Marketing team: Work on product messaging and upcoming launches.
 - Sales and support teams: Review user feedback & requests, and ensure the team is aware of new features.

 