# How to create a Product Vision?


## Learning Objectives

  - Learn how to craft a powerful vision and understand why it is important to share the vision.


## How to create a Product Vision?

  - Establishing product vision is a collaborative effort involving teammates, organization leaders, and even current and prospective customers.


## Understand the Market Need

  - Vision starts with knowing the customers and what they need. We have to deeply understand their pain points and how the products will help.

  - Research and gain insights to understand who the product serves.


## Collaborate with Stakeholders

  - Collaborate with stakeholders in the organization incluing sales, marketing, leadership, development, etc.


## Summary

  - **Geoffery Moore** offers a simple template for drafting a vision statement, based on a fill-in-the-blank approach.

  - For **[our target customer]**, who **[customer's need]**, the **[product]** is a **[product category or description]** that **[unique benefits and selling points]**. Unlinke **[competitors or current methods]**, our product **[main differentiators]**.

  - **For Example**: For the customers of facebook who wants to share their moments the Instagram is a mobile application that will help them to create videos and audios and share it with their friends and families. Unlike YouTube which is a long-form video platform, our product tailored for short-form videos and helps peoples create videos and share them instantly.


## Importance of sharing the vision 

  - It is important that there is alignment across the different stakeholders and everyone has a shared vision.

  - With a shared vision, everyone always has a true north to refer back to, which can help remind them of why they're doing what they're doing.

  - So share the vision to get alignment and early feedback.


## Documentation

  - Finally, formalize it in writing. Add it to your website or internal wiki so that it is easy for everyone to refer back to.